Recommended ACES Workflow for O-Log2
Contents
1. Introduction
2. Workflow
   a. OPPO-Log2 DCTL File Loading Steps
   b. Importing the OPPO-Log2 Video to the Timeline.
   c. Adding Serial Node
   d. Applying DCTL Effects
   e. Applying ACES Transform
   f. Transforming to Rec.709 (Display-Referred Color space)




1.Introduction
ACES (Academy Color Encoding System) is a color image encoding system in the film
industry through which the color compatibility between different cameras can be better
compatible. This guide takes an OPPO-Log2 video as an example to provide instructions
on how to use the ACES workflow using video editing software, such as DaVinci Resolve.




2.Workflow
2.1 OPPO-Log2 DCTL File Loading Steps
Open DaVinci Resolve, click the Project Settings (Shortcut: SHIFT + 9 ) icon in the lower
right corner, select Color Management in Project Settings, and click Open LUT Folder.
Place the file O_Log2_to_ACES_AP0.dctl into the DCTL folder.
Restart Davinci Reslove and it will take effect.



2.2 Color Management in Nodes.
  2.2.1 Importing the OPPO-Log2 Video to the Timeline.
  Create a new timeline, Import the video from the Media Bin. Go to the Color Panel.
2.2.2 Adding Serial Node
Right Click the node, press Add Node and Add Serial, at least 3 Nodes are needed.
2.2.3 Applying DCTL Effects
Click Effects Tab, Select the DCTL and Drag it into the first Node. Select ' O-
Log2_to_ACES_AP0_V2' in the DCTL list, which means the video transforms from
OPPO-Log2 to Linear AP0 Color Space.




Note: It is required to load the O-Log2 DCTL file first. For more information, refer to
the O-Log2 DCTL File Loading Steps section.



2.2.4 Applying ACES Transform
Select ACES Transform in Effects, drag it into the second Node. Select ACES 1.3 in
ACES version. Select No Input Transform in Input Transform. Select ACEScct-CSC*
in Output Transform. This step transforms the video from linear AP0 color space to
AP1 log color space. The user can adjust the brightness and color of the video in
AP1 color space.
Note: Users can select other options (ACEScc-CSC or ACEScg-CSC) in Output
transform based on their needs.
2.2.5 Transforming to Rec.709 (Display-refer Color space)
It is recommended to complete the color grading process at the nodes between color
space Transform before and after. After the Color grading is completed, the user can
continue to use ACES on subsequent nodes to transform the video to RRT or other
color spaces. Here we take the transformation to Rec.709 as an example. Click
Effects in the upper right corner. Select ACES, then click and hold to drag and drop
it on the subsequent node. Select ACES 1.3 in ACES version. Select ACEScct-CSC
in Input Transform. Select Rec.709 in Output Transform. This step transforms the
video from AP1 color space to Rec.709 color space, so as to facilitate subsequent
video export.
